# Flask URL Shortener App

This is a simple Flask application for resume that allows users to shorten URLs and view statistics about the shortened links.

## Features

- Shorten long URLs to a unique short URL.
- View statistics about the usage and entries of the shortened links.
- Serve as a basic URL shortening service.

## Usage

### Running Locally
1. Install the necessary dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
2. In terminal initialize the database and run the migrations:

    ```
    flask db init
    flask db migrate
    flask db upgrade
    ```
3. Run the application using `python app.py`.
4. Access the application by visiting http://localhost:5000 in your web browser.

### Using Docker
1. Build the Docker image using the provided Dockerfile:

    ```bash
   docker build -t app .
    ```
2. Run the Docker container using the built image:

    ```bash
    docker run -p 5000:5000 app
    ```
3. Access the application by visiting `http://localhost:5000` in your web browser.

## Project Structure

- `app.py`: Script used to run Flask application.
- `__init__.py`: Initializes a Flask web application, stores database and app cofiguration.
- `views.py`: Application file containing the Flask routes.
- `models.py`: Defines the database models using SQLAlchemy.
- `forms.py`: Contains the Flask-WTF forms for URL input.
- `templates/`: Directory containing the HTML templates.
- `static/`: Directory containing static files such as CSS and cat images.

## About

This application was built using Flask and SQLAlchemy for the backend, with simple HTML and Bootstrap templates for the front-end.

## Author

Kacper Mirecki

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
Cat images are generated by Midjourney AI.
